.\" Copyright stuff
.TH ozc 1
.SH NAME
ozc \- compile oz code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ozc [\|\fImode\fP\|] \fIoptions .\|.\|.\fP
.PP
.SM MODES
.PP
The `\fBozc\fP' compiler can operate in one of several mutually
exclusive modes selected by the options below:
.TP
.B \-h, \-?, \-\-help
Prints out information on all legal options, then exits
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-dump
`\fBozc -c\fP \fIFILE.oz\fP'
compiles and evaluates the expression in file \fIFILE.oz\fP, then
pickles the resulting value into the output file, \fIFILE.ozf\fP by
default.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-feedtoemulator
`\fBozc -e\fP \fIFILE.oz\fP'
compiles and executes the statement in file \fIFILE.oz\fP. This is the
default mode of operation.
.TP
.B \-E, \-\-core
`\fBozc -E\fP \fIFILE.oz\fP'
translates the statement in file \fIFILE.oz\fP into the core language,
then writes this expanded form into the output file, \fIFILE.ozi\fP by
default.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-outputcode
`\fBozc -S\fP \fIFILE.oz\fP'
compiles the statement in file \fIFILE.oz\fP into the assembly
bytecode format, then writes it to the output file, \fIFILE.ozm\fP by
default.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-executable
`\fBozc -x\fP \fIFILE.oz\fP'
much like \fB-c\fP, compiles and evaluates the expression in file
\fIFILE.oz\fP, then writes the resulting value into the output file,
by default: \fIFILE\fP (no extension) under Unix or \fIFILE.exe\fP
under Windows. Additionally, it makes the output file
executable. Thus, if \fIFoo.oz\fP contains an application functor: 
`\fBozc -x\fP \fIFoo.oz\fP' creates the file \fIFoo\fP (\fIFoo.exe\fP
under Windows), which is executable and can be invoked directly from
the shell. However, you can always run an application functor as
follows: `\fBozengine\fP \fIurl args .\|.\|.\fP' where \fIurl\fP is a
URL or pathname that references the application functor.
.PP
.SM OPTIONS
.PP
Additionally, the compiler understands the following general options:
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Display all compiler messages
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Inhibit compiler messages
.TP
.B \-M, \-\-makedepend
Instead of executing, write a list of dependencies to stdout
.TP
.B \-o \fIFILE\fP, \-\-outputfile=\fIFILE\fP
Write output to \fIFILE\fP (\- for stdout)
.TP
.B \--execheader=\fISTRING\fP
When invoked with option \fB-x\fP the compiler first outputs a header
so that the output file may be interpreted by the operating system as
an executable. Under Unix, the default behaviour is to use the following as header:
.br
.nf

#!/bin/sh 
exec ozengine $0 "$@"

.fi
The \fB\-\-execheader\fP option allows you to specify a different
header.
.TP
.B \-\-execpath=\fISTRING\fP
Uses the header given above in the description of
\fB\-\-execheader\fP, except that \fBozengine\fP is replaced by
\fISTRING\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-execfile=\fIFILE\fP
Reads in \fIFILE\fP and uses this as header. Under Windows, the
default behaviour is to use the file provided in
\fIozhome/bin/ozwrapper.bin\fP, where \fIozhome\fP is Mozart's
installation folder. \fIozwrapper.bin\fP is a Windows executable that
launches ozengine.
.TP
.B \-\-execwrapper=\fIFILE\fP
Reads in \fIozhome/bin/FILE\fP and uses it as header for executable
files. Apart from \fIozwrapper.bin\fP, an \fIozwrapperw.bin\fP is
supplied that launches \fBozenginew\fP instead of \fBozengine\fP. This
option provides a convenient way to use this alternative wrapper.
.TP
.B \-z \fIN\fP, \-\-compress=\fIN\fP
Pickles may be written in a compressed format. By default they are not
compressed. `\fB\-z\fP \fIN\fP' selects a compression level: \fIN\fP
is an integer between 1 and 9. Compressing a pickle may improve
loading/downloading time.
.TP
.B \-D \fINAME\fP, \-\-define=\fINAME\fP
Define macro \fINAME\fP. Code source may have `\fB\\ifdef\fP
\fINAME\fP' conditional directives that tests whether macro \fINAME\fP
is defined.
.TP
.B \-U \fINAME\fP, \-\-undefine=\fINAME\FP
Undefines macro \fINAME\fP
.TP
.B \-l \fIMODULES\fP, \-\-environment=\fIMODULES\fP
.nf

ozc -l Baz=$HOME/baz.ozf -c Foo.oz

.fi
Makes \fIMODULES\fP, a comma-separated list of pairs VAR=URL,
available in the environment. For each VAR=URL, the module available
through the functor at URL is obtained and VAR is bound to it. The
file \fIFoo.oz\fP being compiled can then reference variable VAR.
.TP
.B \-I \fIDIR\fP, \-\-incdir=\fIDIR\fP
Adds \fIDIR\fP to the head of OZPATH which is used to locate files to
\fB\\insert\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-include=\fIFILE\fP
Compile and execute the statement in \fIFILE\fP before processing the
remaining options. This can be used e. g. to extend the compilation
environment by executing a \fBdeclare\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-maxerrors=\fIN\fP
Limit the number of errors reported to \fIN\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-baseurl=\fISTRING\fP
Set the base URL to resolve imports of computed functors to
\fISTRING\FP.
.PP
.SM SWITCHES
.PP
Finally, phases of the compiler can be controlled by the compiler
switches below:
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-(no)debuginfo
Emits code with debugging information. Use this option if you want to
take advantage of The Mozart Debugger. The \fB\-g\fP option is actually
an abbreviation for the combination of \fB\-\-controlflowinfo\fP and
\fB\-\-staticvarnames\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)controlflowinfo
Include control flow information
.TP
.B \-\-(no)staticvarnames
Include static variable name information
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-(no)profile
Emits code with profiling information. Use this option if you want to
take advantage of The Mozart Profiler.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)gump
Allow Gump definitions.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)compilerpasses
Show compiler passes.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)warnredecl
Warn about top-level redeclarations.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)warnunused
Warn about unused variables.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)warnunusedformals
Warn about unused variables and formals.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)warnforward
Warn about oo forward declarations.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)warnopt
Warn about missed optimizations.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)expression
Expect expressions, not statements.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)allowdeprecated
Allow use of deprecated syntax.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)staticanalysis
Run static analysis.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)realcore
Output the real non-fancy core syntax.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)debugvalue
Annotate variable values in core output.
.TP
.B \-\-(no)debugtype
Annotate variable types in core output.
.TP
.B \-\-functionalpatterns
Use functional pattern-matching.
